Chapter 1: Introduction to C++ and Programming

1.0: Overview of C++ and its history

Bjarne Stroustrup developed C++, a high-level, general purpose programming language, in 1979 at Bell Labs. 
The language was created as an addition to the C programming language, including classes and objects and other object-oriented capabilities. 
The name of such a  language was modified from "C with Classes" to C++ later.

First utilized in the creation of the Unix operating system, C++ swiftly became well-liked by programmers. 
With the language's standardization by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1998, his use has increased dramatically.

C++'s use of object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts, which allow developers to create complex, reusable software components, is one of his defining characteristics.

1.1: Introduction to programming concepts such as algorithms, data structures, and control structures

Programming concepts are the building blocks of computer programming. 
Algorithms, data structures, and control structures seem to be instances of certain concepts.

Algorithms are accumulations of steps used it to solve a problem. 
They are used to specify the process for completing an assignment and can be thought of as problem-solving recipes.

Algorithms are a fundamental part of computer programming and are used in a wide range of applications, from simple tasks like sorting a list of numbers to more complex tasks like finding the shortest path between two points on a map.

Data structures are techniques for organizing and storing data in a computer. 
They are used to represent complex data connections and are crucial for efficient and effective data management. 
Arrays, linked lists, trees, as well as graphs are examples of commonly used data structures.

Control structures are the foundation of program logic. Conditional statements (if/else), loops (for and while), and branches (switch/case) are all used to control the flow of execution in a program. 
Control structures are used to implement algorithms and process data that has already been stored in data structures.


